---
title: "August"
bg: myblack
color: mygrey
fa-icon: code-fork
---

## Phase III - August

For the third phase of my GSoC project, I implemented the asynchronous traversal API,
which makes it possible to traverse futures inside a variadic pack while being able
to suspend the current execution context.

We need to provide a special visitor object for this API:

{% highlight cpp linenos=table %}
struct my_async_visitor
{
    /// The synchronous overload is called for each object,
    /// it may return false to suspend the current control.
    /// In that case the overload below is called.
    template <typename T>
    bool operator()(async_traverse_visit_tag, T&& element)
    {
        return true;
    }

    /// The asynchronous overload this is called when the
    /// synchronous overload returned false.
    /// In addition to the current visited element the overload is
    /// called with a contnuation callable object which resumes the
    /// traversal when it's called later.
    /// The continuation next may be stored and called later or
    /// dropped completely to abort the traversal early.
    template <typename T, typename N>
    void operator()(async_traverse_detach_tag, T&& element, N&& next)
    {
    }

    /// The overload is called when the traversal was finished.
    /// As argument the whole pack is passed over which we
    /// traversed asynchrnously.
    template <typename T>
    void operator()(async_traverse_complete_tag, T&& pack)
    {
    }
};
{% endhighlight %}

Then we are able to traverse an arbitrary pack of futureswhile being able to suspend the current execution context at any time to resume it later.

{% highlight cpp linenos=table %}
hpx::future<void> f1;
hpx::future<int> f2;

util::traverse_pack_async(my_async_visitor{}, f1, 2, f2);
{% endhighlight %}

This implementation is equal to a stackless coroutine, however we may re-implement this API with the synchronous one as soon as `co_await` is introduced and available in C++20.

Finally, I replaced the internal API of `wait_all` and `dataflow` with the synchronous and  asynchronous traversal API, so both interfaces are able to deal with the same set or arguments (unification).
The capabilities of both functions were extended to the one of `unwrapped` to deal with:

- nested types
- move only types
- arbitrary homogeneous and tuple-like containers
- passing non future types through

As positive side effect duplicated code in `wait_all` and `dataflow` was removed.

***

- **Fixes for the unwrapped transition:**
  - [`320f515335`](https://github.com/STEllAR-GROUP/hpx/commit/320f515335b43f03423fe9714defbbc2920ccc7e) Fix a parsing error with Visual Studio 2015 which occurred in unwrap * Ref #2741
  - [`c442ec06e9`](https://github.com/STEllAR-GROUP/hpx/commit/c442ec06e9f3974cf8ffc64c9cf25c6d54f61124) Fix a potential unconditial moves in hpx::util::tuple_cat * Thanks to K-ballo for pointing this out * We use hpx::util::get now for retrieving a specific   element at index i instead of the internal   tuple_element API. * Ref #2741
  - [`4ea728d97a`](https://github.com/STEllAR-GROUP/hpx/commit/4ea728d97aea6e3c5d13a879da7fbabae78df5eb) Fix a unit test failure on GCC in tuple_cat * Add a test which targets the same issue on other toolchains
  - [`f9ec761db1`](https://github.com/STEllAR-GROUP/hpx/commit/f9ec761db110d2766dee75299322158e0e67ab0f) Remove constexpr from a void function
- **Improve the continous integration testing:**
  - [`af4fdf501a`](https://github.com/STEllAR-GROUP/hpx/commit/af4fdf501a7407b130b444a9be0f984ac8844ea1) Add Visual Studio 2015 to the tested toolchains in Appveyor * Closes #2844
- **[#2829](https://github.com/STEllAR-GROUP/hpx/pull/2829) Implement an API for asynchronous pack traversal:**
  - TODO
